**DHAKA, July 12, 2025**—The World Bank’s new Vice President for the South Asia Region, Johannes Zutt, arrives in Dhaka today. During his four-day official visit, Zuttwill meet with the Honorable Chief Adviser of the Interim Government, the Finance Adviser, Bangladesh Bank Governor, and other senior government officials and private sector representatives.

Zutt assumed his role as World Bank Vice President for the South Asia Region on July 1, 2025. Bangladesh will be his first official visit in the new role, and he previously served as the World Bank’s Country Director for Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal from 2013 – 2015.  

_“I have very fond memories of Bangladesh, its people, and the friendships I have made there. I was always impressed by the resilience and creativity of the Bangladeshi people and their determination to build a better future for their children_,” said **Zutt**_. “I look forward to returning to Bangladesh to see firsthand the transformative changes that have been achieved over the ten years since I left my role as Country Director. The World Bank remains committed to helping Bangladesh to maintain a sustainable and inclusive growth path and create more and better jobs for the two million youths entering the job market every year.”_

A Dutch national, Mr. Zutt joined the World Bank in 1999 and has taken positions of increasing responsibility. He most recently served as the World Bank’s Country Director for Brazil. Before this he was the Director for Strategy, Results, Risk and Learning in the Operational Policy and Country Services (OPCS) Vice Presidency. He has also served as Country Director for Türkiye, Comoros, Eritrea, Kenya, Rwanda, Seychelles and Somalia.

The World Bank was among the first development partners to support Bangladesh after its independence. Since then, the Bank has committed about $46 billion to Bangladesh, mostly in grants or concessional credits. Bangladesh currently has one of the largest ongoing programs supported by the World Bank Group’s International Development Association (IDA).