**WASHINGTON, July 11, 2025 –** The World Bank has approved a $2.97 million grant to help Djibouti improve care and educational opportunities for children with disabilities. This funding aims to assist families by providing support to children with disabilities from the very beginning of their learning journey, ensuring they receive the necessary resources to succeed.

The **Improving Inclusion of Vulnerable Children with Disabilities** Project is financed by the Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF)\* and aims to transform educational access and economic opportunities for children with disabilities and their families in selected schools across Djibouti. By conducting assessments, the project seeks to understand the challenges faced by these children both at home and in school. This will empower the National Agency for Persons with Disabilities (ANPH) and its partners to gather critical data. Additionally, the project will focus on enhancing educational access and fostering economic inclusion for families, helping them build a more secure future.

The project aims to benefit approximately 4,500 individuals, including 2,500 schoolchildren with hearing and visual disabilities, and 2,000 household and community members, focusing on vulnerable groups such as poor, out-of-school children and those with various disabilities enrolled in regular or specialized schools. It will address unmet needs and vulnerabilities by supporting activities aligned with strategies from the ANPH, the Ministry of National Education and Vocational Training (MENFOP), and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Solidarity (MASS), advancing education for children with special needs and promoting economic empowerment for poor and vulnerable households.

"_This project is a transformative effort aimed at empowering children with disabilities in Djibouti,_’’ emphasized **Fatou Fall, Joint Resident Representative of the World Bank Group for Djibouti**. "_Through the enhancement of educational resources and support systems, we are tackling the current needs of these children while simultaneously providing them with the essential tools for long-term success and societal integration_."

Despite efforts to integrate marginalized Djiboutians living with disabilities as full citizens, children and students with disabilities continue to face barriers to accessing quality education. Families hosting children with disabilities, especially poor and vulnerable ones, face economic challenges, often burdened by high costs associated with medical care and specialized therapies. These costs can worsen existing vulnerabilities such as unemployment and lack of income opportunities.

"_This initiative marks a crucial advancement in our shared mission to foster inclusivity in Djibouti,_" stated **Hara Keichii, Japan Ambassador to Djibouti**. "_By enhancing educational and economic opportunities for children with disabilities, we are not only meeting current challenges but also building a pathway to a more inclusive tomorrow_."

Aligned with Djibouti’s Vision 2035, this operation supports socio-economic development by addressing the exacerbated social and economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and recent global crises. The project aligns with the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Framework and the National Disability Strategy of the Republic of Djibouti 2021-2025, reinforcing commitments to inclusive and sustainable development.

The [**Japanese Social Development Fund**](https://www.worldbank.org/en/programs/japan-social-development-fund?) is a Partnership between the Government of Japan (GoJ) and the World Bank conceived in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. It was established in June 2000 as a grant mechanism to provide targeted assistance to groups made vulnerable by the financial crisis in low- and lower-middle-income countries around the world.